---
layout: post
title:  "Polycyclic groups - Part1"
date:   2018-07-11
excerpt: "GSoC'18 Week 7 & 8"
tag:
- markdown 
- syntax
- sample
- test
- jekyll
comments:  true
future:    true
published: true
---

## Idea 
Implementation of polycyclic groups in Sympy. A few methods of the pc-groups require similar implementation as that of the `FpGroups`, so,  `PcGroup`  can be implemented as a child of the `FpGroup`  such that it will inherit the methods required. 

## Deliverables
* Computation of polycyclic series for a given `FpGroup`. 
* Solving word problem for Polycyclic groups using collection algortihm.
* Implement a method to compute coset representatives of a given CosetTable.(Might be useful in the computation of polycyclic series). **(Week-9)**
* Elementatry methods like `compute_pc_presentation`, `compute_power_relations`, `compute_relative_orders` etc... **(Week-9)**


## Algorithms
* **Computing the polycyclic series:** As sugested by Valeriia and Kalevi in the gitter channel, the method to compute the polycyclic series would be, first we compute the derived series `G = G1, G2, ..., Gn = <identity>`. Every quotient `Q_i = G_i/G_i+1` is abelian so every subgroup of the quotient group is a normal subgroup. To compute the subnormal series, we randomly pick and element `e`(Could be the generators as well) from `Q_i` and quotient the group `Q_i` with the group generated by this element `e`. This will be repeated recursively to obtain the cyclic subnormal series, `H1, H2, ..., Hn`. Now, the pre-images(`H*_k`) of `H_k` in the quotient map from `G_i -> G_i+1` will be the subgroups of `G_i`. Now, we lift it to the original group. So, the final cyclic subnormal series(polycyclic series) will be `G1 > ... > G_i > H*_1 >... H*_n > G_i+1 > ... > <identity>`. 
* **Computing the abelian-subgroup-quotient (Auxilary method):** The presentation of the quotient `G/H` is given by adding the generators of `G` to the relators of `H`, they are defined on the same free-group.
* **Computing Polycyclic generating sequence and relative orders:** The polycyclic generating sequence can be obtained by chosing an element `g_i` such that `g_i` belongs to `G_i/G_i+1`. And the relative order `r_i` is written as `r_i = [G_i:G_i+1]`.

## Implementation

* A `PcGroup` class is defined as a child of the `FpoGroup` class. 
* Method `is_polycyclic` is implemented to check if the given group is polycyclic.
* A method to compute the polycyclic series for a given group. 
* A method to check if a given group is the subgroup of a parent group.(Uses the `PermutationGroup` isomorphic to it).
* A few elementary methods are implemented as a part of the `PcGroup` class, which include `is_prime_order`, `relative_order`, `compute_pcgs`.


## Trvial example 
To be added after testing.

## PR
[Here](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/14879) is the link to the PR 'Add methods for Polycyclic Groups'. This is currently work in progress (as of 11tha July, 2018) and would be completed soon. 

## Week-9: 
* Method to compute the coset representative for a given cosetTable. 
* Implementation of the collectuion algorthim. 
* Implement methods to compute the pc-presentation and the power realtions.
* **To-Do:** Add tests and documentation.
## References 
* [1] Derek F.Holt, Bettina Fick, Eamonn A.O’Brian. Handbook of Computational Group Theory.
* [2] [Article](https://www.icts.res.in/sites/default/files/1284624569notes.pdf) on Polycyclic groups. 
* [3] GAP - Polycyclic package.
